1z0-815 certification  
=====================

ยง 1.1 Intro and Overview
------------------

A

ยง 1.2 Course Info
-----------

B



ยง 1.3 Java Classes, Main Methods, Executables Jars and More
--------------------------------------------------------

### `JShell`
: not expected to be known in exam.


### `java` 
: launch java application

`--class-path`, `-classpath`, `-cp`
: parameter is a semicolon separated list of directories, jar archives, and zip archives to search for class files.

`--verbose:class`
: Displays information about each loaded claas.

`--verbose:gc`
: displays information about each garbage collection event (GC)


### `javac`
:reads java class and interface defintions and complie them into bytecode class files.

`-d`
: sets the destination directory

`-g` 
: generates all debugging information

`-g:[lines, vars, source]`
: generates only the kind of debugging information specified by the comma-separated list of keywords.

`-g:none`
: does not generate debugging information

`-verbose` 
: outputs messages about what the compiler is doing

### `jar`
:create an archive for the classes and resrourcees and to manipulate or restore individual classes or resources from an archive

`-c`, `--create`
: creates the archive

`-C` 
: changes the specified directory and includes the files specified at the end of the command line

`-f`, `--file` 
: specifies the archive file name

`-m`, `--manifest` 
: includes the manifest information from the given manifest file


`javap`
: Disassemble one or more class files

`-c` 
: prints disassembled cod, for example, the instructions that comprise the Java bytecodes, for each of the methods in the class

### What does `java MyCode.java` do?
If you dont have a class file and you do the following, the file will be run.  No class file is created and the file is _interpreted_: ran in place.
If the class file exists then an error will occurr: 
> `error: class found on applicatgion class path: MyCode`

### Rules

- A public class must have the same name as the filename,
> Filename: `MyCode.java`  
> Code    : `public class MyCode { /*...*/ }`

- There must be one or zero public classes in a file.  If the class if public it must have the same name as the filename.

- If you want a class to be executable the JVM will look for a main method that is both public and static.  
- The method signature must also match.
- Return type is always void

- Correct signatures:

```java
{
public static void main(String[] args) { /* ... */}
public static void main(String... args) { /* ... */ }
public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception { /* ... */ } 
static public void main(String[] args)

public final static void main(String[] args)
public final strictfp static void main(String[] args)
public final strictfp synchronized static void main(String[] args)
public final static synchronized strictfp void main(String[] args)


public static void main(String args[])
public static void main(String...args) //no spaces
public static void main(final String[] args) {}

/* parameter name can be anything */
public static void main(String stuff[])
public static void main(String[] vars)
public static void main(String...thingies)

/* Exceptions can be handled */ 
public static void main(String[] args) throws Throwable{}
public static void main(String...args) throws Error {}
}
```

### Jars

- Creating a jar file  
:`jar -cf MyJar.jar -C out\dev\schemer MyCode.class`
- Using a jar file  
: `jar -cp MyJar.jar MyCode`


### Using a manifest

Create a file `manifext.txt` with the following contents

```
Main-Class: MyCode
```

Make sure there is a return ant the end of the line.

Run the following at the command-line:  
`jar -cfm MyJar.jar manifest.txt -C out\dev\schemer MyCode.class`

Now we execute the following  
: `java -jar MyJar.jar`

The file in the `manifest.txt` class `Main-Class` property is executed: `MyCode`.

### Arguments



ยง 1.4 Package and Imports
-------------------

Packages
From Oracle: "A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classed and interfaces.  Conceptually you can think of packages as being similar to different folders on your computer."

### Rules
- A source file must have 0 or 1 statements
- Must be at the beginning of the file (excluding white-space and comments) that states the name of the package.
- Class file can only be associated with a single package
- A package can be associated with multiple classes and/or interfaces.

`package period.delimited.name;`

- Example of commands
>  `java -cp build dev.schemer.math.Computer`

 - Whats the difference?  
    1) `javac -d build src\dev\schemer\math\Computer.java`
    2) `javac src\dev\schemer\math\Computer.java`

> 2) creates the `.class` file in the same directory as `.java` files.
> As opposed to 1) that creates the file in the build folder with the package name as the directory structure.


### Referencing

```java
{

  //FQCN
  java.util.ArrayList = new java.util.ArrayList()

  // Single-type import
  import java.util.ArrayList;
  ArrayList aList = new ArrayList();

  // Type-import On demand declaration (discouraged)
  import java.util.#;

  // Single static import declaration
  import static.java.lang.Math.PI;

  // static import on demand declaration
  import static java.lang.Math.#;
}
```

## Fully Qualified Class Names, Singly Type Import, and Type Import on Demand
To use a class in your code which resides in another package, even a parent package, you must use either a FQCN or a flavor of an import statement.

The `java.lang` package does not have to be explicitly imported.  Or a class from that package does not have to be fully qualified.  For example `String` does not have to be references as `java.lang.String`.

- Single-type-import declaration
> `import dev.schemer.Math;`

- Type-import-on-demand
> `import dev.schemer.*;`

- Single-type-import declaration:
  - Takes precedence of the import-on-deman declaration
  - Prevents you from creating a class of the same name in source file

### Rules

What gets imported?
: If one has ~import dev.#;~, one would not get the ~dev.schemer.Math~ class.  One would only get the classes defined at the ~import.dev~ level.
